Blog Post: Vulnerable Microservices (#38104)
kubernetes/website: content/en/blog/_posts/2023-01-15-Security-Bahavior-Analysis/index.md

---
layout: blog

> title: "All Microservices Are Vulnerable"

Reviewer: I don't agree with this title. We should build consensus that the Kubernetes project is happy to endorse this message.

A less controversial message is to design _as if_ your code is riddled with risk, but not to actually assert that it truly is.

Reviewer: (I don't want people to think that we're announcing a Kubernetes vulnerability, for example).

Author: @sftim, 
The title and content of this blog were discussed with the 6 reviewers from the Security-Tooling WG who reviewed this blog during a joint meeting we had to discuss this blog. 

We discussed the main message and the reasoning for this title. The title was changed from "Vulnerable Microservices" as a result to this one. 

I stand behind this title 100% since it is exactly what we do want people to understand. That the microservices deployed are all vulnerable and should take this into account. The assumption that the deployed microservices are not vulnerable is exactly what we are trying to root out in this article. No, in practice, it is impossible to build a weakness-free microservice that will not be vulnerable.

This title does not say Kubernetes is vulnerable  - it says that the deployed microservices are all vulnerable and it is about time the community will start accepting this reality and start acting accordingly.

Reviewer: /hold

Let's make sure the project as a whole is happy with the comms side of things before we ship it. It _is_ a contentious title.

Reviewer: Aside: https://github.com/kubernetes/community/ doesn't list a WG Security Tooling.

Reviewer: You might mean https://github.com/kubernetes/community/tree/master/sig-security#security-tooling ?

Author: RIght

Author: Please let me know where should it be discussed beyond the discussion we already had in the sig-security-tooling WG meeting. I will try to make the case for accepting the post and its message. I thought we already passed this phase after the sig-security-tooling WG review, but I now understand that we did not.

I think it is great to get this posted in the k8s community blog (as it is very applicable to the community users and also important to the community developers) and be happy to explain the security aspects to whoever wishes to listen.  

If this blog is not accepted, np and I will publish it elsewhere.

Reviewer 2: > The title and content of this blog were discussed with the 6 reviewers from the Security-Tooling WG who reviewed it during a joint meeting we had to discuss this blog.
...
> Please let me know where should it be discussed beyond the discussion we already had in the sig-security-tooling WG meeting. I will try to make the case for accepting the post and its message. I thought we already passed this phase after the sig-security-tooling WG review, but I now understand that we did not.

SIG Docs' Blog subproject manages the review process for blogs. Discussion on the content and title can continue on this PR. Folks from SIG Security can continue with the technical review on this PR and provide a `/lgtm` to confirm the technical review for this blog post.

Reviewer 2: From @sftim 
> Let's make sure the project as a whole is happy with the comms side of things before we ship it. It is a contentious title.
...
From @davidhadas 
> I stand behind this title 100% since it is exactly what we do want people to understand. That the microservices deployed are all vulnerable and should take this into account. The assumption that the deployed microservices are not vulnerable is exactly what we are trying to root out in this article. No, in practice, it is impossible to build a weakness-free microservice that will not be vulnerable.

Let's tune the title so that it's not contentious and it conveys the author's message/intention.

@davidhadas, since deployed microservices are vulnerable (I agree with you on this), imo it's why a zero trust model should be applied everywhere, and this blog introduces _security behavior_, how about:

- Microservices Are Vulnerable — Analyze Their _Security Behavior_
- Yes, Your Microservices Are Vulnerable or Your Microservices Are Vulnerable
- Analyze the _Security Behavior_ of Microservices in Kubernetes

I'm not the best writer but what I'm trying to do above is to keep the impact of "All Microservices are Vulnerable" but defer the context of "microservices"  a bit

Reviewer 3: Agree with Rey above.

Author: Changed to "All Your Microservices Are Vulnerable"
If will not be accepted, will change to "Your Microservices Are Vulnerable"

date: 2023-01-15
slug: security-behavior-analysis
---

**Author:**
David Hadas (IBM Research Labs)

## Avoiding a False Sense of Security

> _This post warns Devops from a false sense of security. Following security best practices when developing and configuring microservices do not result in non-vulnerable microservices. The post shows that although all deployed microservices are vulnerable, there is much to be done to ensure microservics are not exploited. It explains how analyzing the behavior of clients and services from a security standpoint, named here **"Security-Behavior Analysis"**, can protect the deployed vulnerable microservices. It points to [Guard](http://knative.dev/security-guard), an open source project offering security-behavior monitoring and control of Kubernetes microservices presumed vulnerable._

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
_This post warns Devops from a false sense of security. Following security best practices when developing and configuring microservices do not result in non-vulnerable microservices. The post shows that although all deployed microservices are vulnerable, there is much to be done to ensure microservices are not exploited. It explains how analyzing the behavior of clients and services from a security standpoint, named here **"Security-Behavior Analysis"**, can protect the deployed vulnerable microservices. It points to [Guard](http://knative.dev/security-guard), an open source project offering security-behavior monitoring and control of Kubernetes microservices presumed vulnerable._
```

As cyber war games continue to intensify in sophistication, organizations deploying cloud services, continue to grow their cyber investments aiming to produce safe and non-vulnerable services. However, the year-by-year growth in cyber investments, does not result in a parallel reduction in cyber incidents. Instead, the number of cyber incidents continues to grow annually. Evidently organizations are fighting a battle they are doomed to fail at. No matter how much effort is made to detect and remove cyber weaknesses from deployed services, it seems offenders have the upper hand.

Considering the current spread of offensive tools, sophistication of offensive players, and ever-growing cyber financial gains to offenders, any cyber strategy that relies on constructing a non-vulnerable, weakness-free service in 2023 is clearly too naïve. It seems the only viable strategy is to:

&#x27A5; **Admit that your services are vulnerable!**

> In other words, consciously accept that you will lose any battle aimed to create non-vulnerable services. If your opponents find a single weakness as an entry-point, you lose. Admitting that although your best efforts, all your services are most likely vulnerable is an important first step. Next, we need to discuss what can you do about it...

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
In other words, consciously accept that you will lose any battle aimed to create non-vulnerable services. If your opponents find a single weakness as an entry-point, you lose. Admitting that in spite of your best efforts, all your services are most likely vulnerable is an important first step. Next, we need to discuss what can you do about it...
```

See:

- [Guard on Github](https://github.com/knative-sandbox/security-guard) for using Guard as a standalone.
- The Knative automation suite - Read about Knative, as an [Opinionated Kubernetes](https://davidhadas.wordpress.com/2022/08/29/knative-an-opinionated-kubernetes) implementation that simplifies and unifies the way web services are deployed on Kubernetes.
- You can also find more information on how to [secure microservices by monitoring behavior](https://developer.ibm.com/articles/secure-microservices-by-monitoring-behavior/)

The goal of this post is to invite the Kubernetes community to action and introduce Security-Behavior monitoring and control to help secure Kubernetes based deployments. Hopefully, the community as a follow up will:

1. Analyze the cyber challenges presented for different Kubernetes use cases
1. Add appropriate security documentation for users on how to introduce Security-Behavior monitoring and control.
1. Consider how to integrate with tools that can help users monitor and control their vulnerable services.

## Getting Involved

> You are welcome to get involved and join the effort to develop security behavior monitoring

Reviewer 4: Not sure if I asked this earlier, but is there a link to a `Getting Started Guide` or a slack channel / mailing list or other place where people can actually go to _get involved_ ? Right now this section encourages involvement without clear guidance on `how`.

Author: ok, I will see what I can add

Author: I added a link to the slack channel of the maintainers (it is not being moved to cncf)

Reviewer 2: > Not sure if I asked this earlier, but is there a link to a Getting Started Guide or a slack channel / mailing list or other place where people can actually go to get involved ? Right now this section encourages involvement without clear guidance on how.

There is a Getting Started page on kubernetes.dev
https://www.kubernetes.dev/docs/guide/#getting-started

---
layout: blog
title: "All Microservices Are Vulnerable"
date: 2023-01-15
slug: security-behavior-analysis
---

**Author:**
David Hadas (IBM Research Labs)

## Avoiding a False Sense of Security

> _This post warns Devops from a false sense of security. Following security best practices when developing and configuring microservices do not result in non-vulnerable microservices. The post shows that although all deployed microservices are vulnerable, there is much to be done to ensure microservices are not exploited. It explains how analyzing the behavior of clients and services from a security standpoint, named here **"Security-Behavior Analysis"**, can protect the deployed vulnerable microservices. It points to [Guard](http://knative.dev/security-guard), an open source project offering security-behavior monitoring and control of Kubernetes microservices presumed vulnerable._

Reviewer: You could use a `description:` in the front matter for this (a line after `slug:`).

---

There's a logic error here. You take that _all deployed microservices are vulnerable_ as a lemma and then assert that Guard can protect them. However, you have not covered protection of the microservices (either for the reader's specific workload, or in the entire world) that don't run on Kubernetes. For some microservices, Guard cannot even try.

How do you feel about that? I won't insist that you reword it, but I do _recommend_ that you rewrite it to frame it as an opinion rather than an absolute.

> As cyber war games continue to intensify in sophistication, organizations deploying cloud services, continue to grow their cyber investments aiming to produce safe and non-vulnerable services. However, the year-by-year growth in cyber investments, does not result in a parallel reduction in cyber incidents. Instead, the number of cyber incidents continues to grow annually. Evidently organizations are fighting a battle they are doomed to fail at. No matter how much effort is made to detect and remove cyber weaknesses from deployed services, it seems offenders have the upper hand.

Reviewer 3: Cyber war games = cyber attacks?

Author: I will rephrase

> Considering the current spread of offensive tools, sophistication of offensive players, and ever-growing cyber financial gains to offenders, any cyber strategy that relies on constructing a non-vulnerable, weakness-free service in 2023 is clearly too naïve. It seems the only viable strategy is to:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Considering the current spread of offensive tools, sophistication of offensive players, and ever-growing cyber financial gains to offenders, any cyber strategy that relies on constructing a non-vulnerable, weakness-free service in 2023 is clearly too naïve. I'm asserting that the only viable strategy is to:
```

As this is:
- an opinion
- it's yours

and this is in a blog article, it's OK to bring in the first person.

Some readers are going to be less happy with “all deployed microservices are vulnerable” - it'll bristle with people who take pride in their work or who see the statement as simplistic. I'm proposing a framing to helps make it clear that you're stating this as opinion, not as the kind of factual statement that'd earn a [citation needed] on Wikipedia.

Author: This is not a personal opinion. 
It is a well-understood reality among hackers black and white hat. 
It is also frequently spoken of in various security-related forums.

Reviewer: Is it plausible that a service _doesn't_ have a vulnerability?

Honestly, I think we agree on the facts. What you're describing sounds like the motivation for [zero trust architecture](https://www.ncsc.gov.uk/blog-post/zero-trust-architecture-design-principles): treat network peers as hostile and avoid assuming that any service you interact with is well-behaved.

**Guard** helps meet UK NCSC zero trust design principle 3:
> You should monitor health signals from your users and devices continuously, to evaluate confidence in their trustworthiness.

That framing would work fine. What I'm concerned about is making the assertion that not only should people design as if their code is vulnerable (for which they may read: awful), it actually is. This could and would offend.
If we publish something where it's clearly you as author making that assertion about their app / architecture, fine - you're welcome to. I definitely want to avoid also implying that the Kubernetes project officially endorses that view.

Author: @sftim, if you wish we can have a technical discussion on this in sig-security, but I really don't think we do agree on the facts as long as you believe that developers can create non-vulnerable microservices when they try hard enough (or that most of their microservices are not vulnerable and only a few are). 

Similar to the fact that you can't secure your home (or office) and make it non-vulnerable - protect it against a professional, well-motivated thief, you also can't secure your microservice and make it non-vulnerable - protect it against a professional, well-motivated hacker. This is exactly why governmental entities keep their sensitive services air-gapped and will never in their right mind keep highly sensitive information in any internet-connected system. They do so since they understand that everything is vulnerable and use the air gap to make it harder on the offenders (btw, as proven more than once, even with air-gaped systems they are vulnerable). Now, we can have a full discussion about why this is, but I think you will find that this concept that "everything is vulnerable" is well agreed upon by people in the field (not only by those working for governments ;) ).  

Ergo, and more specifically to the applicable audience, All Microservices are Vulnerable. 

I do understand this requires a mind shift from where your current beliefs are, the same as it requires a mind shift from where many readers will be when reading this post. But this is why this blog post was created. To help (a bit) create this mind shift. So, making the crystal clear statement that "Your microservices are vulnerable" is important in this context while tweaking this statement to say something softer is not helpful.

&#x27A5; **Admit that your services are vulnerable!**

> In other words, consciously accept that you will lose any battle aimed to create non-vulnerable services. If your opponents find a single weakness as an entry-point, you lose. Admitting that in spite of your best efforts, all your services are most likely vulnerable is an important first step. Next, we need to discuss what can you do about it...

Reviewer 3: Can we possibly rephrase this to the below? I don't think it takes away from the overall meaning. WDYT?
```suggestion
Consciously admitting that in spite of your best efforts, all your services are most likely vulnerable is an important first step. Next, we need to discuss what can you do about it...
```

Author: I will rephrase without the word "battle".

## How to Protect Microservices From Being Exploited

> Being vulnerable does not necessarily mean you've lost the war. Though your services are vulnerable in some ways unknown to you, offenders still need to identify these vulnerabilities and then exploit them to win the war. If offenders fail to exploit your service vulnerabilities, you win! In other words, having a vulnerability that can’t be exploited, represents a risk that can’t be realized.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Being vulnerable does not necessarily mean that your service will be exploited. Though your services are vulnerable in some ways unknown to you, offenders still need to identify these vulnerabilities and then exploit them. If offenders fail to exploit your service vulnerabilities, you win! In other words, having a vulnerability that can’t be exploited, represents a risk that can’t be realized.
```

{{< figure src="Example.png" alt="Image of an example of offender gaining foothold in a service" class="diagram-large" caption="Figure 1. An Offender gaining foothold in a vulnerable service" >}}

> The above diagram shows an example in which the offender does not yet have a foothold in the service. I.e., It is assumed that your service does not run code controlled by the offender on day 1. In our example the service has vulnerabilities in the API exposed to clients. To gain an initial foothold the offender uses a malicious client to try and exploit one of the service API vulnerabilities. The malicious client sends an exploit that triggers some unplanned behavior of the service.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The above diagram shows an example in which the offender does not yet have a foothold in the service, that is, it is assumed that your service does not run code controlled by the offender on day 1. In our example the service has vulnerabilities in the API exposed to clients. To gain an initial foothold the offender uses a malicious client to try and exploit one of the service API vulnerabilities. The malicious client sends an exploit that triggers some unplanned behavior of the service.
```

> More specifically, let’s assume the service is vulnerable to an SQL injection, the developer failed to do proper sanitization of user input, allowing clients to send values that will change the intended behavior. In our example, if a client sends a query string with key “username” and value of _“tom or 1=1”_, the client will receive the data of all users. Exploiting this vulnerability requires the client to send an irregular string as the value. Note that benign users will not be sending a string with spaces or with the equal sign character as a username, instead they will normally send legal usernames which for example may be defined as a short sequence of characters a-z. No legal username may trigger service unplanned behavior.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
More specifically, let’s assume the service is vulnerable to an SQL injection. The developer failed to sanitize the user input properly, thereby allowing clients to send values that would change the intended behavior. In our example, if a client sends a query string with key “username” and value of _“tom or 1=1”_, the client will receive the data of all users. Exploiting this vulnerability requires the client to send an irregular string as the value. Note that benign users will not be sending a string with spaces or with the equal sign character as a username, instead they will normally send legal usernames which for example may be defined as a short sequence of characters a-z. No legal username can trigger service unplanned behavior.
```

> In this simple example we can already identify several opportunities to detect and block an attempt to exploit the vulnerability (un)intentionally left behind by the developer, making the vulnerability unexploitable. First, the malicious client behavior differs from the behavior of benign clients, as it sends irregular requests. If such change in behavior is detected and blocked, the exploit will never reach the service. Second, the service behavior in response to the exploit, differs from the service behavior in response to a regular request. The service irregular behavior may include making subsequent irregular calls to other services such as a data store, taking irregular time to respond, and/or responding to the malicious client with an irregular response (for example, containing much more data than normally sent in case of benign clients making regular requests). Service behavioral changes, if detected, will also allow blocking the exploit in different stages of the exploitation attempt.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In this simple example we can already identify several opportunities to detect and block an attempt to exploit the vulnerability (un)intentionally left behind by the developer, making the vulnerability unexploitable. First, the malicious client behavior differs from the behavior of benign clients, as it sends irregular requests. If such change in behavior is detected and blocked, the exploit will never reach the service. Second, the service behavior in response to the exploit, differs from the service behavior in response to a regular request. Such behavior may include making subsequent irregular calls to other services such as a data store, taking irregular time to respond, and/or responding to the malicious client with an irregular response (for example, containing much more data than normally sent in case of benign clients making regular requests). Service behavioral changes, if detected, will also allow blocking the exploit in different stages of the exploitation attempt.
```

More generally:

- Monitoring the behavior of clients can help detect and block exploits against service API vulnerabilities. In fact, deploying an efficient client behavior monitoring makes many vulnerabilities unexploitable and others very hard to achieve. To succeed, the offender needs to create an exploit undetectable from regular requests.

> - Monitoring the behavior of services can help detect services as they are being exploited regardless of the attack vector used. Efficient service behavior monitoring limits what an attacker may be able to achieve as the offender need to ensure the service behavior is undetectable from regular service behavior.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Monitoring the behavior of services can help detect services as they are being exploited regardless of the attack vector used. Efficient service behavior monitoring limits what an attacker may be able to achieve as the offender needs to ensure the service behavior is undetectable from regular service behavior.
```

In a microservice environment, each microservice is expected by design to offer a more well-defined service and serve better defined type of requests. This makes it easier for an observer to identify irregular client behavior and irregular service behavior. Further, a microservice design exposes the internal requests and internal services which offer more security-behavior data to identify irregularities by an observer. Overall, this makes the microservice design pattern better suited for security-behavior monitoring and control.

## Security-Behavior Under Kubernetes

> Kubernetes deployments seeking to add Security-Behavior may use [Guard](http://knative.dev/security-guard), developed under the CNCF project Knative. **Guard can be installed as a standalone tool to protect any HTTP-based Kubernetes service**. Alternatively, Guard is integrated into the full Knative automation suite that runs on top of Kubernetes.

Reviewer 3: Shouldn't the standalone version be the alternative if it is originally a tool developed as an integration for the Knative project? WDYT?

Author: Done

See:

- [Guard on Github](https://github.com/knative-sandbox/security-guard) for using Guard as a standalone.

> - The Knative automation suite - Read about Knative, as an [Opinionated Kubernetes](https://davidhadas.wordpress.com/2022/08/29/knative-an-opinionated-kubernetes) implementation that simplifies and unifies the way web services are deployed on Kubernetes.

Reviewer: How do we feel about mentioning Opinionated Kubernetes? Context matters. In David's own blog, that's more obviously David's own coining of a term. Mentioned on the Kubernetes blog, readers might infer that Opinionated Kubernetes is a concept of the project overall.

Author: Knative after all is a layer above Kubernetes that allows deploying services in a certain way... 
And it is opinionated as to how such services should be structured, deployed, managed, and even secured...

If this is a concern, we can change the sentence above to say: 

Read about Knative, in the blog post "[Opinionated Kubernetes](https://davidhadas.wordpress.com/2022/08/29/knative-an-opinionated-kubernetes)" which describes how Knative simplifies and unifies the way web services are deployed on Kubernetes.

> - You can also find more information on how to [secure microservices by monitoring behavior](https://developer.ibm.com/articles/secure-microservices-by-monitoring-behavior/)

Reviewer: Please link to a range of articles from different sources (not just from your employer). We'd make an exception if IBM were the only company working on the field, but that's not the case here.

Author: I can remove the IBM blog, if this bug anyone
I wanted to give a reference for someone to read more about this, but if this is contentious - I can remove

Reviewer: You certainly can have more than one reference. Having just an IBM reference looks partial.
